Add Azure Containers blog post (#557)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/azure-container-solutions/index.md

---
title: "Which Azure Container Solution is right for you?"
date: 2021-08-31T13:51:22-07:00
draft: true
meta_desc: "A look at the container solutions available in Azure"
meta_image: "azure-top-5.png"
authors:
    - lee-briggs
tags:
    - azure
    - containers
---

Containers have emerged as one of the de facto standards for running software. When adopted with the right mindset, they can drastically improve the development lifecycle and help to close the loop between local development and running your applications in the cloud.

> If you're at the stage of trying to run your application in Microsoft Azure, the choices can be overwhelming. The Azure Container [product page](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/product-categories/containers/) lists 7 different products on their landing page, and for new users it can often be difficult to decide which of the myriad products is right for their use case. What can make it even more confusing is that often these container services can be interoperable, meaning you can use one container product from another!

Author: I'm not sure "option" works with my writing style here, can you elaborate on this suggestion a little? Grammarly seems to think the original verbiage is okay

> If you're at the stage of trying to run your application in Microsoft Azure, the choices can be overwhelming. The Azure Container [product page](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/product-categories/containers/) lists 7 different products on their landing page, and for new users it can often be difficult to decide which of the myriad products is right for their use case. What can make it even more confusing is that often these container services can be interoperable, meaning you can use one container product from another!

Reviewer: Ah, so `option` was just a word to put there. This suggestion comes from back when I was editing standardized exams. Generally, the lack of a word in this phrase can cause a reader who might not have English as their first language or who might have trouble with English grammar to trip up and get lost in the sentence because they can't identify an antecedent. I'd say you can safely skip this suggestion if you would rather do so as the consequences are much lower here :)

## Azure App Service

Azure App Service is a more fully-featured offering for hosting applications, focusing more on WebApps and API services. It started life as several differing offerings (Azure Websites, Azure Mobile Service & Azure BizTalk) before being bundled into a single service in March 2015. Its origins as multiple solutions means it has developed tight integrations with other Azure solutions and offers many value-add features depending on your use case.

It’s important to note that because of the myriad features Azure App Service offers, running containers is only a small part of what you can do with it.

With that in mind, let’s take a look at where it shines with regards to running containers.

### What’s it good for?

Azure App Services is designed to be a one stop shop for your web application needs, so it’s highly opinionated and pushes you in a certain direction

#### Integrations

Azure App Service has many integrations with Azure. As an example, if you need to add a CDN to your web service, it’s extremely straightforward to do so with Azure CDN.

> This tight integration with Azure’s many other services makes it likely to meet the needs of your application and extend it as needed, introducing common architecture components like message queues and databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tight integration with Azure’s many other services makes it likely to meet the needs of your application and extend it as needed, such as if you are introducing common architecture components like message queues and databases.
```

#### Scaling & Availability

> Azure App Service has a myriad of available scaling capabilities built out of the box. Not only can you scale the actual container you’ve deployed (while also simultaneously placing pricing caps on your service) but you can also scale related resources if necessary, which fits well with the tight integration we mentioned previously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure App Service has a myriad of available scaling capabilities built out of the box. Not only can you scale the actual container you’ve deployed (while also simultaneously placing pricing caps on your service), but you can also scale related resources if necessary, which fits well with the tight integration we mentioned previously.
```

> App service scaling for your container can either scale up (ie: increase the amount of resources associated with your container) or scale out (ie: have more containers behind your load balancer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
App service scaling for your container can either scale up (i.e., increase the amount of resources associated with your container) or scale out (i.e., have more containers behind your load balancer).
```

This flexibility in scaling means you can be safe to assume your application will meet spiking traffic requirements and service your users’ needs.

### What’s not great about it?

#### Opinionated

> Azure App Service is highly opinionated. It’s tight integrations with other Azure services mean that you’re expected to follow established patterns for achieving your goals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure App Service is highly opinionated. Its tight integrations with other Azure services mean that you're expected to follow established patterns for achieving your goals.
```

> This even extends to the allowed languages that Azure App Service supports - if you’re developing your application in an unsupported language, you can’t use the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This situation even extends to the allowed languages that Azure App Service supports: If you’re developing your application in an unsupported language, you can’t use the service.
```

> This opinionated implementation means that the initial learning curve can be steep. The origins of app services means the product has grown in complexity along with its opinionated implementation, and as a result it can be overwhelming when getting started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This opinionated implementation means that the initial learning curve can be steep. The origins of app services means the product has grown in complexity along with its opinionated implementation, and as a result, it can be overwhelming when getting started.
```

### What we’d use it for

The scaling options available to App Service means that it’s extremely well positioned to handle your large scale, fluctuating web applications. If you expect to have traffic spikes during peak hours, you can configure App Service to scale relatively easily in a manner that suits your budget and needs.

## Azure Kubernetes Service

> Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) is Azure’s managed Kubernetes offering which has been available since October 2017.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) is Azure's managed Kubernetes offering, which has been available since October 2017.
```

> Azure was very quick to market with its Kubernetes offering, and hired several prominent Kubernetes engineers like Brendan Burns to head up the engineering departments building the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure was very quick to market with its Kubernetes offering and hired several prominent Kubernetes engineers like Brendan Burns to head up the engineering departments building the service.
```

> Kubernetes is a very fully featured product, and AKS is a very conformant implementation of Kubernetes, so a lot of our good and bad considerations next will be an evaluation of Kubernetes, as well as AKS.

Reviewer: Breaking up the sentence a bit for readability.
```suggestion
Kubernetes is a very fully featured product, and AKS is a very conformant implementation of Kubernetes. Therefore, a lot of our good and bad considerations next will be an evaluation of Kubernetes, as well as AKS.
```

### What’s it good for?

#### Extensibility

> Kubernetes is incredibly feature rich. Out of the box with AKS you’ll get application self healing capabilities (via the mechanism of reconcile loops built into Kubernetes), the ability to run different types of workload (via native Kubernetes resources such as StatefulSets, Deployments and Jobs) and a large amount of extensibility via Kubernetes’ Custom Resource Definitions capability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes is incredibly feature rich. Out of the box with AKS, you’ll get application self-healing capabilities via the mechanism of reconcile loops built into Kubernetes, the ability to run different types of workload via native Kubernetes resources such as StatefulSets, Deployments and Jobs, and a large amount of extensibility via Kubernetes’ Custom Resource Definitions capability.
```

#### Familiarity

Kubernetes also offers a familiar API regardless of the cloud provider you’re working with. If you’re new to AKS, but have used a managed Kubernetes service from another cloud provider, you might find it relatively easy to get your container up and running in AKS.

### What’s not great about it?

#### Complexity

> Kubernetes has a steep learning curve, and AKS is no exception. A lot of the knowledge needed to run and operate Kubernetes is handled by AKS itself, but you still have to have an in-depth understanding of how Kubernetes works in order to get your container running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes has a steep learning curve, and AKS is no exception. A lot of the knowledge needed to run and operate Kubernetes is handled by AKS itself, but you still have to have an in-depth understanding of how Kubernetes works to get your container running.
```

> In addition to this, the specification for a simple Kubernetes job can often be hundreds of lines of code. You have to learn not only how to run the container, but also understand how Kubernetes exposes services to the world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, the specification for a simple Kubernetes job can often be hundreds of lines of code. You have to learn not only how to run the container but also understand how Kubernetes exposes services to the world.
```

### What we’d use it for

> The flexibility and extensibility offered by Kubernetes as a platform means it’s possible to run many types of workloads. Large companies have battled tested Kubernetes (and by extension, AKS) running everything from web applications, to machine learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The flexibility and extensibility offered by Kubernetes as a platform means it’s possible to run many types of workloads. Large companies have battle-tested Kubernetes (and by extension, AKS), running everything from web applications to machine learning.
```

> If you’re able to invest time into learning and understanding the ecosystem, and can dedicate people to maintaining and managing your Kubernetes implementation, AKS is a fantastic option for almost any workload you might consider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're able to invest time into learning and understanding the ecosystem and can dedicate people to maintaining and managing your Kubernetes implementation, AKS is a fantastic option for almost any workload you might consider.
```

## Everything Else

### Azure Red Hat OpenShift

> Azure RedHat OpenShift is an enterprise grade implementation of Kubernetes developed by Red Hat. OpenShift builds on Kubernetes by adding support, enterprise grade security and platform as a service integrations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Red Hat OpenShift is an enterprise grade implementation of Kubernetes developed by Red Hat. OpenShift builds on Kubernetes by adding support, enterprise-grade security, and Platform-as-a-Service integrations.
```

> If the idea of using Kubernetes for your container solutions seems appealing, but you need SLA’s around support and integrations, Azure’s Red Hat OpenShift solution is a great option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the idea of using Kubernetes for your container solutions seems appealing but you need service level agreements (SLAs) around support and integrations, Azure’s Red Hat OpenShift solution is a great option.
```

### Azure Service Fabric

Azure Service Fabric is a container service focused on distributed applications, like microservice architectures or complex distributed compute environments.

> If you’re planning on running a complex architecture, Azure Service Fabric can be a great fit, but provides more orchestration capabilities than Azure App Service. Service Fabric can also extend outside Azure’s cloud into your on-premise data center if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re planning on running a complex architecture, Azure Service Fabric can be a great fit. It provides more orchestration capabilities than Azure App Service. Service Fabric can also extend outside Azure's cloud into your on-premise data center if necessary.
```

If your application has needs related to low latency, especially across distributed regions, Service Fabric is a great fit.

### Azure Batch

> Azure Batch is a service focused on High Performance Compete (HPC) workloads. These workloads can often scale horizontally to thousands of processes, and can be difficult to orchestrate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Batch is a service focused on High Performance Compete (HPC) workloads. These workloads can often scale horizontally to thousands of processes and can be difficult to orchestrate.
```

> Azure Batch makes this process simpler, by providing a managed service to handle the difficult processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Batch makes this process simpler by providing a managed service to handle the difficult processes.
```

> If you’re planning on passing large amounts of data to your application via a queuing mechanism and having that data processed very quickly, Azure Batch is definitely a service you should consider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re planning on passing large amounts of data to your application via a queuing mechanism and having that data processed very quickly, Azure Batch is definitely a service you should consider.
```

### Azure Functions

> Azure Functions is Azure’s function as a service implementation. It supports launching “function apps” inside containers as a deployment mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Functions is Azure’s Function-as-a-Service implementation. It supports launching “function apps” inside containers as a deployment mechanism.
```

> Function as a Service products are often designed for short lived, event driven workloads. If you need to run a script to react to a worker queue or other event, Azure Functions are a great option. It’s important to remember that Functions are often billed based on how long they run, so short lived workloads are often better suited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Function-as-a-Service products are often designed for short-lived, event-driven workloads. If you need to run a script to react to a worker queue or other event, Azure Functions are a great option. It's important to remember that Functions are often billed based on how long they run, so short-lived workloads are often better suited.
```

> ## Wrap Up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Wrap-Up
```

> As you can see from this article, there are a number of options for running containers in Azure, and choosing the right one for your workload might be difficult. We’ve tried to give an overview of the current state of the world, but Microsoft continues to add options and capabilities to all these products.

Reviewer: Generally, for accessibility, I try to avoid verbiage that refers to a sense or an action that may not be something someone can do (e.g., seeing something, clicking something).

```suggestion
There are a number of options for running containers in Azure, and choosing the right one for your workload might be difficult. We've tried to give an overview of the current state of the world, but Microsoft continues to add options and capabilities to all these products.
```

In many cases, the only configuration options you need to pass to your ACI provisioning mechanism is the image you’re running and some sizing decisions, like how many CPUs and how much memory you need. There is some flexibility in this decision process, but having fewer required options means you’re not bogged down with complex architectural decisions when trying to get your container running.

This lends itself particularly well to web server projects, especially at smaller scales. You can launch applications very quickly and easily by specifying the image you've built, and your application can be running in very short order.

#### Start-Up Times

ACI Containers start fast&mdash;often in a matter of seconds. This speed really helps the developer lifecycle and helps to create productivity when you're developing your application.

#### Pricing

> ACI will only bill you for what you use. It offers no start-up costs (which goes great with the fast start times!) and per-second billing, meaning you only pay for what you use. The pricing is also extremely competitive against other cloud providers.

Reviewer 2: I find "pay for what you use" a bit confusing. You pay per time regardless of whether there are any users/requests to the container, as opposed to more serverless services that charge per request and can scale to zero.

#### The Other Stuff

From a security perspective, ACI separates your container from others running in the same environment, meaning your application will have the same level of security as if it was running on a different virtual machine. This separation really helps to provide peace of mind and is yet another benefit of the serverless model&mdash;less infrastructure means less worries.

As expected from Microsoft, ACI has excellent support for Windows containers and .NET platform applications, which is lacking around other cloud providers. If you need to run Windows containers, this support is a huge benefit.

### What's not great about it?

#### Scaling

> ACI supports customizing the amount of resources you can assign to a container, but it will only run one copy. There's no horizontal scaling available, so if you need more resources, you only have one option: scaling vertically.

Reviewer 2: There is an option of creating N equal independent instances and configuring load balancing across them, but it's very manual and awkward. Some people do that though.

## Azure App Service

Azure App Service is a more fully-featured offering for hosting applications, focusing more on WebApps and API services. It started life as several differing offerings (Azure Websites, Azure Mobile Service, and Azure BizTalk) before being bundled into a single service in March 2015. Its origins as multiple solutions means it has developed tight integrations with other Azure solutions and offers many value-add features depending on your use case.

Because of the myriad features Azure App Service offers, running containers is only a small part of what you can do with it.

With that in mind, let's take a look at where it shines with regard to running containers.

### What’s it good for?

Azure App Services is designed to be a one-stop shop for your web application needs, so it's highly opinionated and pushes you in a certain direction.

> #### Integrations

Reviewer 2: By contrast with ACI, App Service has full-featured integration with Azure networking. You can run it fully locked out in a virtual network, which is huge for enterprise scenarios.

Azure App Service has many integrations with Azure. As an example, if you need to add a CDN to your web service, it’s extremely straightforward to do so with Azure CDN.

This tight integration with Azure’s many other services makes it likely to meet the needs of your application and extend it as needed, such as if you are introducing common architecture components like message queues and databases.

#### Scaling & Availability

Azure App Service has a myriad of available scaling capabilities built out of the box. Not only can you scale the actual container you’ve deployed (while also simultaneously placing pricing caps on your service), but you can also scale related resources if necessary, which fits well with the tight integration we mentioned previously.

App service scaling for your container can either scale up (ie: increase the amount of resources associated with your container) or scale out (ie: have more containers behind your load balancer).

This flexibility in scaling means you can be safe to assume your application will meet spiking traffic requirements and service your users’ needs.

> ### What’s not great about it?

Reviewer 2: The kind of images that you can run on App Service are somewhat limited. I don't remember the exact limitation but, for instance, I think you can't run a docker compose file there (so, any workload with 2+ containers?).

Author: I can't find any reference to this? I've left this out for now, but can add it if needed

#### Opinionated

> Azure App Service is highly opinionated. Its tight integrations with other Azure services mean that you're expected to follow established patterns for achieving your goals.

Reviewer 2: I'd mention somewhere that running something that is not webapp-y in nature is probably a bad idea.

> This situation even extends to the allowed languages that Azure App Service supports: If you’re developing your application in an unsupported language, you can’t use the service.

Reviewer 2: Why? You can build a container image for any language and put it into App Service.

If you're able to invest time into learning and understanding the ecosystem and can dedicate people to maintaining and managing your Kubernetes implementation, AKS is a fantastic option for almost any workload you might consider.

## Everything Else

### Azure Red Hat OpenShift

Azure Red Hat OpenShift is an enterprise grade implementation of Kubernetes developed by Red Hat. OpenShift builds on Kubernetes by adding support, enterprise-grade security, and Platform-as-a-Service integrations.

If the idea of using Kubernetes for your container solutions seems appealing but you need service level agreements (SLAs) around support and integrations, Azure’s Red Hat OpenShift solution is a great option.

### Azure Service Fabric

Azure Service Fabric is a container service focused on distributed applications, like microservice architectures or complex distributed compute environments.

If you’re planning on running a complex architecture, Azure Service Fabric can be a great fit. It provides more orchestration capabilities than Azure App Service. Service Fabric can also extend outside Azure's cloud into your on-premise data center if necessary.

> If your application has needs related to low latency, especially across distributed regions, Service Fabric is a great fit.

Reviewer 2: Balance this with why it's not so great? I think at this point MS markets SF as "use it only if you really know what you are doing". It's definitely pretty hard to use AFAIK.

### Azure Batch

> Azure Batch is a service focused on High Performance Compete (HPC) workloads. These workloads can often scale horizontally to thousands of processes and can be difficult to orchestrate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Azure Batch is a service focused on High Performance Compute (HPC) workloads. These workloads can often scale horizontally to thousands of processes and can be difficult to orchestrate.
```
